elections.md, before:

# Open Mainframe Project Election Process

The Open Mainframe Project seeks to hold open, fair, transparent, and efficient elections for various roles within the Open Mainframe Project. See the chart before for the elections and role timelines for the Open Mainframe Project.

| Role                                                         | Period                                          | Electorate Group                                             | Number of Elected Individuals                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Silver Member Governing Board representative(s)              | January 1 - December 31                         | Open Mainframe Project Silver Membership class               | One for every ten Silver Members, a minimum of one representative and maximum of three representatives, rounded down to the nearest whole number ( see [Open Mainframe Project Charter](http://charter.openmainframeproject.org/) section 3(a)(iii) ). |
| Academic Institution Member Governing Board representative(s) | January 1 - December 31                         | Open Mainframe Project Academic Institution Membership class | One for every ten Academic Institution Members, a minimum of one representative and maximum of three representatives, rounded down to the nearest whole number ( see [Open Mainframe Project Charter](http://charter.openmainframeproject.org/) section 3(a)(iv) ). |
| Academic Institution, Associate, and Silver Member Marketing Committee Representative | January 1 - December 31                         | One.
| Governing Board Chairperson                                  | Reviewed annually by Governing Board in January | Governing Board representatives                              | One.                                                         |
| Governing Board Secretary                                    | Reviewed annually by Governing Board in January | Governing Board representatives                              | One.                                                         |
| TAC Chairperson and Vice Chairperson (specific process at https://tac.openmainframeproject.org/process/tac_roles.html)                         | January 1 - December 31                | Voting TAC representatives                                   | One Chairperson and one Vice Chairperson                                                         |
| Marketing Committee Chairperson                              | Reviewed annually by the Marketing Committee in January         | Voting TAC representatives                                   | One.                                                         |

Elections are typically held the month before the role end date for each role above. The exact timeline will be communicated to the electorate group but generally has the following structure.

|                                  |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Election Notice                  | 2 weeks                                                      |
| Nomination Period                | 1 week; closes at 11:59 pm Central European Time on the last day. |
| Review of Nominees               | 1 day                                                        |
| Election Period                  | 1 week; closes at 11:59 pm Central European Time on the last day. |
| Announcement of Election Results | Day after Election Ends                                      |


## Nominations

Nominations are done via email. Members of the electorate group may nominate someone else in the electorate group or self-nominate. All nominations must include the nominee’s name, company affiliation, and a short background on the nominee and why they wish to serve in the role. All nominations are confirmed before the election.


## Elections

If there are the same number or fewer nominees for the given role as there are persons to be elected, those nominees are automatically elected. The electorate will be informed of this via email.

An election will be held if there are more nominees for the given role than the number of persons elected. The Open Mainframe Project uses [LFX PCC Voting](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/project-control-center/v2-latest-version/collaborations/voting) for the election process. Electorates will be sent an email with the complete list of nominees to review and a separate email from LFX PCC Voting with a unique link to submit their ballot. Voting will be done using the checkbox method; electors will checkbox the individual(s) they wish to elect.

Election results will be announced to the electorate and relevant committee the day after the election closes.

If you have questions about the election process, please contact the [Open Mainframe Project staff](https://members.openmainframeproject.org).

Commit message:

Add eligilbility requirements for elected individuals (#275)
Signed-off-by: John Mertic <jmertic@linuxfoundation.org>

elections.md, after:

# Open Mainframe Project Election Process

The Open Mainframe Project seeks to hold open, fair, transparent, and efficient elections for various roles within the Open Mainframe Project. See the chart before for the elections and role timelines for the Open Mainframe Project.

| Role                                                         | Period                                          | Electorate Group                                             | Number of Elected Individuals                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Silver Member Governing Board representative(s)              | January 1 - December 31                         | Open Mainframe Project Silver Membership class               | One for every ten Silver Members, a minimum of one representative and maximum of three representatives, rounded down to the nearest whole number ( see [Open Mainframe Project Charter](http://charter.openmainframeproject.org/) section 3(a)(iii) ). |
| Academic Institution Member Governing Board representative(s) | January 1 - December 31                         | Open Mainframe Project Academic Institution Membership class | One for every ten Academic Institution Members, a minimum of one representative and maximum of three representatives, rounded down to the nearest whole number ( see [Open Mainframe Project Charter](http://charter.openmainframeproject.org/) section 3(a)(iv) ). |
| Academic Institution, Associate, and Silver Member Marketing Committee Representative | January 1 - December 31                         | One.
| Governing Board Chairperson                                  | Reviewed annually by Governing Board in January | Governing Board representatives                              | One.                                                         |
| Governing Board Secretary                                    | Reviewed annually by Governing Board in January | Governing Board representatives                              | One.                                                         |
| TAC Chairperson and Vice Chairperson (specific process at https://tac.openmainframeproject.org/process/tac_roles.html)                         | January 1 - December 31                | Voting TAC representatives                                   | One Chairperson and one Vice Chairperson                                                         |
| Marketing Committee Chairperson                              | Reviewed annually by the Marketing Committee in January         | Voting TAC representatives                                   | One.                                                         |

Elections are typically held the month before the role end date for each role above. The exact timeline will be communicated to the electorate group but generally has the following structure.

|                                  |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Election Notice                  | 2 weeks                                                      |
| Nomination Period                | 1 week; closes at 11:59 pm Central European Time on the last day. |
| Review of Nominees               | 1 day                                                        |
| Election Period                  | 1 week; closes at 11:59 pm Central European Time on the last day. |
| Announcement of Election Results | Day after Election Ends                                      |

## Eligibility

To serve on any governing body, council, or committee of the Open Mainframe Project, an individual must:

- Be willing and able to fulfill the applicable responsibilities, and
- Comply with all applicable policies of the Linux Foundation and the Open Mainframe Project, including [Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy) and [Open Mainframe Project Code of Conduct](https://tac.openmainframeproject.org/code_of_conduct.html).

Failure to meet these requirements may result in removal, suspension, or ineligibility to participate.

## Nominations

Nominations are done via email. Members of the electorate group may nominate someone else in the electorate group or self-nominate. All nominations must include the nominee’s name, company affiliation, and a short background on the nominee and why they wish to serve in the role. All nominations are confirmed before the election.

## Elections

If there are the same number or fewer nominees for the given role as there are persons to be elected, those nominees are automatically elected. The electorate will be informed of this via email.

An election will be held if there are more nominees for the given role than the number of persons elected. The Open Mainframe Project uses [LFX PCC Voting](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/project-control-center/v2-latest-version/collaborations/voting) for the election process. Electorates will be sent an email with the complete list of nominees to review and a separate email from LFX PCC Voting with a unique link to submit their ballot. Voting will be done using the checkbox method; electors will checkbox the individual(s) they wish to elect.

Election results will be announced to the electorate and the relevant committee the day after the election closes.

If you have questions about the election process, please contact the [Open Mainframe Project staff](https://members.openmainframeproject.org).
